keywords: none
URL: https://blog.arcsncurves.com/blog/tried-tested-20-content-ideas-for-b2b-social-media?hs_amp=true


“Writer’s block” and “Lack of Ideas” are the top 2 problems that writers and content creators face when it comes to generating content ideas for B2B social media marketing.



	
70% of B2B marketers are creating more content than they did one year ago to improve brand presence and market credibility.



	
Be a source of inspiration and assistance to your audience and business associates. Post helpful tips that can help them improve performance, learn something new or uncover industry insights. 



	
Use the help of academic journals and research organizations’ archives to find relevant research. Browse through research that deserves social media coverage - no matter how old or new it may be. 



	
Create fresh content in the form of blog posts on your website and publicise them on social media everytime there’s a new one up. This tactic contributes to increased website figures and better SEO rankings. Writing blogs establishes your brand as a thought-leader & expert in your industry. This lends professionalism & credibility to your brand.



	
In every audience group, there’s always someone who loves reading detailed content. Ask your marketing team to create informative e-books and promote them to earn higher engagement numbers among interested audiences. You could tie those e-books to a lead generation campaign behind opt-in forms too.



	
Always be on the lookout for well-written and helpful  articles from dependable sources that you can share with your followers. This positions your B2B business as a trust-worthy and authoritative source of information.



	
This a brilliant way of developing authority and respect in your industry. Create informative tutorials in various formats to help your audience with a difficult product/service.



	
Top *number* Lists:
Everyone loves “Top 5” or “Top 10” lists, so create content around that theme. Give recommendations to followers about your your top five blog posts, products, tools or resources to build a conversation around them.



	
Fan Photos:
At the end of the day, social media isn’t about hard-core advertising or selling. It’s about socialising with your followers, potential customers & businesses. Reach out to fans, explore their content and share them on your platforms to build rapport.



	
Comic Strips:
This is an undying way of portraying industry sentiments in a humorous manner. Look for comics related to your niche, share them and credit the creator to build relationships that go a long away.



	
SlideShare Presentations:
The forms of content are endless, implying that even SlideShare presentations can be an effective alternative (or addition) to your regular blog posts. Develop a power-packed slideshow and share it with your audience to boost your content marketing efforts.



	
Contests: 
Grab your audience’s attention by running contests for a sample or extended trial of your product.  The contest could involve sharing pictures, comments, shares, hash tagging and so on.



	
Company-Specific News:
“Go Big or Go Home”, when it comes to making special company announcements. Create a loud buzz and ride the social media waves whenever your firm announces something new such as a product, expansion, event or more.


