

Increase customer lifetime value (LTV) – Customers who feel valued and respected have no reason to go anywhere else. Running contests and giveaways can increase customer retention.

Every competition you run will achieve this objective.






Gain customer feedback  - Run a sweepstakes contest where a limited number of fans can test out your new product or service for free.






Drive sales – Offering coupons or vouchers by email can not only help build a list, but drive more sales too.







    1. Sweepstakes

A sweepstakes contest is pretty simple, you run a promotion where participants’ hand their name and email, leave a comment or interact with your contest to enter.

Your job is to simply pick a number of winners at random and reward them with a prize






    Photo and video contests

As the name suggests, photo and video contests work by fans sending in content which is judged by your business or fans. Photo contests can range from what your fans are eating today, a picture of your product in action or something entertaining such as selfies.

Here’s a Warner Brothers’ photo contest for the Man of Steel movie where fans were asked to upload a photo showing how much of a Superman fan they were:






    Instant win

An instant win social media promotion sounds like the name of a scratch card, and kind of works in the same way.

Before hand, you set the probability of participants winning instantly via your chosen app and that’s it. Instant win competitions are effective because fans know immediately if they have won, encouraging them to interact.

Here’s a Carmex UK competition where participants were asked for their email address and to like their Facebook Page for a chance to smash the glass and win a free pot of lip balm:

Certain apps allow fans to tag-in friends or leave a comment before entering. Fans are generally expected to do something before they can take part in instant wins.

Best for: Building up an email list and finding new prospects.






    Polls

Poll social media contests are awesome for asking people for their opinion, especially since everyone has one! Creating pools is a great way to gain social feedback on a specific topic or product.

Here’s Cali Crusher asking social media fans to select their favourite colour grinder:

When setting up a poll competition you can set parameters to ensure fans like your account before voting, set age restrictions and offering up to 50 different voting options depending on the contest app you use.

Best for: Gaining customer feedback and testing product ideas.






     Questionnaires

Let’s be honest, nobody ever wants to fill in a questionnaire… unless it’s to find out what superhero you would be. Which is exactly what Unitrends did with their ‘What Kind OF BDR Superhero Are you?’ competition:

Their goal was to drive traffic from their social media account back to their website. Their questionnaire received 1,500 engagements with an impressive 87% completion rate.

Best for: driving traffic to your website and increasing customer engagement.






    Rewards

What if I told said you that you would be rewarded with a free 8 ounce cup of frozen yoghurt for simply liking a Facebook page? You’d take it, right?

This is what Yotopia Frozen Yogurt did with their genius rewards contest. Everyone who liked their page were rewarded with a free frozen yogurt:

Rewards can be offered for anything from opting-in to your newsletter, sharing your content, leaving a comment, sending an image to just tagging a friend. Reward-based social media contests are great because everyone’s a winner.

Best for: Everything.  






     Pick a winner

Pick a winner competitions involve, yes you guessed it, picking one or more winners. You ask fans to make some sort of interaction with your SM contest and you choose the best interactions.

Here’s Goodnight Moon doing it right:

Pick a winner contests are usually much easier to run and don’t always require an app. Try to keep the interaction simple and short. Asking for long essays doesn’t work so well.

Best for: Increasing engagement and encouraging user generated content.






Tag-a-friend

Tag-a-friend SM competitions are generally aligned with finding new prospects. Fans enter by tagging one or more of their friends for a chance to win.

Here’s Drinkwel using a tag-a-friend competition on Instagram and offering 20 packets of their drink to a single winner:




