

It’s hard to come up with meaningful social media posts that will engage your audience, and easy to rely on the fluff. You know: posts about holidays, throwback photos…which are fine, but won’t get you closer to the thriving, engaged social media audience you dream of.






So what will get you closer to that dream? A consistent schedule of posts that are interesting, educational, helpful and, yes, fun. Let this become your go-to resource when planning your social media posts—the ones that will make an impact.






Alumni accomplishments

Show off those accomplished alumni! Share their awards and accomplishments— this makes your school look thoughtful and supportive, and of course you benefit from the positive association.






Student-generated content

Students are an incredible resource for social media content. Tap into faculty to find out about exciting student projects; connect with club presidents and sports team captains for recent updates and photos; utilize marketing interns to bring in news from the student world.






Student/faculty profiles

Create short profiles of a diverse group of interesting, dedicated students and faculty (don’t forget to include a photo). Showing the personalities that make up your school provides your social audience something to personally connect to.






World news in relation to school news

Is your school involved in a project, initiative or research that is relevant to a broader discussion going on in the world today? Share relevant news articles and connect them to how you’re contributing.






Results of research studies/experiments

Faculty- and student-led research studies and experiments make great social media content. These type of posts are more than just interesting—they can position your school as forward-thinking and show your impact, whether you are a major university releasing life-changing data or a small independent school teaching students the fundamentals of research.






Ask for input

You’ll never really know what your audience thinks, feels or wants unless you ask them. Use a poll or ask quick questions to gauge how your audience feels about a topic. To be successful with this, make it really easy for your audience to answer (for example, give them three choices where they just have to answer A, B, or C).




